Homework: Reversing
-------------------

Imagine you're a student or an employee, and you have an ID consisting of a few alphanumeric
characters. This can have any reasonable length, but let's suppose that it should be something
between 5 and 10 characters (e.g. ABC123). Create such a string to represent your ID - you will
need it for this homework.

This archive contains a Windows executable, which simulates a license verification for this ID.

Although the sample contains some techniques typical for malware, it is not malicious and can be
safely handled on your computer.

Please provide your answers to the questions below, together with relevant justifications, as a
plain text document before the agreed deadline. Please make sure to be clear, but try also to be
concise. Only answers in English will be considered.


Questions
---------
    

1. Something was modified in the executable to ensure that the instruction at .40842F does not
   cause an access violation exception. What is it?
   
   The program makes the .text starting at .401000 section writeable so that it can write code there.
	DS:[00401000]=57 ('W')


2. The sample uses six anti-debugging tricks. Please list them, mention where they are located
   in the binary and explain how you bypassed them. Note that we are NOT asking for any techniques
   to potentially hinder static analysis.
   .408425 - .40842B
   The program checks the PEB structure to see if the program is being debugged. If it is, it uses the flag to change a value that it uses to decrypt some code in .text with xor
   bypass: set the debug flag to zero.
	
	.401526 There seems to be some exceptions, this one is an access violation.


3. What needs to be done to make the verification work for your ID, with the provided executable?
   (i.e. modifying the sample is not a valid method).
   
   I'm not quite sure. I have seen the program is trying to open some file but I can't figure out what file it wants.
   The program also graps various data such as different paths and the program name itself.

4. Describe how you figured out the "missing piece" and its content. Note: this is not the same
   as question 3; we are asking for your reasoning and methodology here.

5. The license verification calculation is a slightly modified version of a well-known algorithm.
   Which one? How did you find out?

